itdoc-doc/docs/guides/quick-start.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

# Quick Start Guide

This guide will help you get started with itdoc quickly by walking through a simple example using
Express.js.

:::tip
If you're using a framework **other than Express**, please refer to the [Framework Guide](framework-guide) for additional instructions.
:::

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (version 20 or higher)
- A test runner (Jest or Mocha)
- Express.js application (for the example)

## Installation

Install itdoc using your package manager of choice:

<Tabs>
    {/* prettier-ignore */}
    <TabItem value="pnpm" label="pnpm" default>
        ```bash
        pnpm install itdoc --save-dev
        ```
    </TabItem>
    {/* prettier-ignore */}
    <TabItem value="yarn" label="yarn">
        ```bash
        yarn add -D itdoc
        ```
    </TabItem>
    {/* prettier-ignore */}
    <TabItem value="npm" label="npm">
        ```bash
        npm install itdoc --save-dev
        ```
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Basic Usage

Let's create a simple API documentation for an Express application.

### 1. Create an Express Application

Create a simple Express application (or use your existing one):

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript" default>
        ```js
        const express = require("express")
        const app = express()

        app.use(express.json())

        app.post("/signup", (req, res) => {
            const { username, password } = req.body

            if (!username) {
                return res.status(400).json({ error: "username is required" })
            }

            if (password && password.length < 8) {
                return res.status(400).json({ error: "password must be at least 8 characters" })
            }

            return res.status(201).json({ message: "User created successfully" })
        })

        module.exports = app
        ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">
        ```ts
        import express, { Request, Response } from "express"

        const app = express()
        app.use(express.json())

        app.post("/signup", (req: Request, res: Response) => {
            const { username, password } = req.body

            if (!username) {
                return res.status(400).json({ error: "username is required" })
            }

            if (password && password.length < 8) {
                return res.status(400).json({ error: "password must be at least 8 characters" })
            }

            return res.status(201).json({ message: "User created successfully" })
        })

        export default app
        ```
    </TabItem>

</Tabs>

### 2. Create a Test File

Create a test file that uses itdoc to document your API:

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript" default>
        ```js
        const app = require("./expressApp")
        const { describeAPI, itDoc, HttpStatus, field, HttpMethod } = require("itdoc")

        describeAPI(
            HttpMethod.POST,
            "/signup",
            {
                summary: "User Registration API",
                tag: "Auth",
                description: "Registers a new user with username and password.",
            },
            app,
            (apiDoc) => {
                itDoc("Successful registration", () => {
                    return apiDoc
                        .test()
                        .req()
                        .body({
                            username: field("Username", "testuser"),
                            password: field("Password", "Password123!"),
                        })
                        .res()
                        .status(HttpStatus.CREATED)
                        .body({
                            message: field("Success message", "User created successfully"),
                        })
                })

                itDoc("Missing username returns error", () => {
                    return apiDoc
                        .test()
                        .req()
                        .body({
                            password: field("Password", "Password123!"),
                        })
                        .res()
                        .status(HttpStatus.BAD_REQUEST)
                        .body({
                            error: field("Error message", "username is required"),
                        })
                })
            },
        )
        ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">
        ```ts
        import app from "./expressApp"
        import { describeAPI, itDoc, HttpStatus, field, HttpMethod } from "itdoc"

        describeAPI(
            HttpMethod.POST,
            "/signup",
            {
                summary: "User Registration API",
                tag: "Auth",
                description: "Registers a new user with username and password.",
            },
            app,
            (apiDoc) => {
                itDoc("Successful registration", () => {
                    return apiDoc
                        .test()
                        .req()
                        .body({
                            username: field("Username", "testuser"),
                            password: field("Password", "Password123!"),
                        })
                        .res()
                        .status(HttpStatus.CREATED)
                        .body({
                            message: field("Success message", "User created successfully"),
                        })
                })

                itDoc("Missing username returns error", () => {
                    return apiDoc
                        .test()
                        .req()
                        .body({
                            password: field("Password", "Password123!"),
                        })
                        .res()
                        .status(HttpStatus.BAD_REQUEST)
                        .body({
                            error: field("Error message", "username is required"),
                        })
                })
            },
        )
        ```
    </TabItem>

</Tabs>

### 3. Run Tests

Configure your test runner. Then run:

<Tabs>
    {/* prettier-ignore */}
    <TabItem value="pnpm" label="pnpm" default>
        ```bash
        pnpm test
        ```
    </TabItem>
    {/* prettier-ignore */}
    <TabItem value="yarn" label="yarn">
        ```bash
        yarn test
        ```
    </TabItem>
    {/* prettier-ignore */}
    <TabItem value="npm" label="npm">
        ```bash
        npm test
        ```
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

If the documentation is not generated correctly, check the [Integration with Test Runner](integration-test-runner) guide.

### 4. Generate OpenAPI Documentation

When you run the tests, an OpenAPI document will be automatically generated in the `output/oas.json`
file in your project root directory. This file is generated based on the API documentation
information written in your test code.

### 5. Additional Configuration (package.json)

You can configure additional settings, such as the output directory and document metadata, by adding
an `itdoc` field to your `package.json` file.

```json title="package.json"
{
    // ... other package.json configurations
    "itdoc": {
        "output": "output", // Directory where the OpenAPI document will be generated (default: output)
        "document": {
            "title": "My API Documentation", // Document title
            "description": "Detailed description of my API." // Document description
        }
    }
}
```

For more detailed configuration options, refer to the [Configuration Guide](./configuration).

## What's Next?

Commit message:

docs: 문서 전체 다듬기  및 이미지 수정 related https://github.com/do-pa/itdoc/issues/187

itdoc-doc/docs/guides/quick-start.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

# Quick Start Guide

This guide will help you get started with itdoc quickly by walking through a simple example using
Express.js.

:::tip
If you're using a framework **other than Express**, please refer to the [Framework Guide](framework-guide) for additional instructions.
:::

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (version 20 or higher)
- A test runner (Jest or Mocha)
- Express.js application (for the example)

## Installation

Install itdoc using your package manager of choice:

<Tabs>
    {/* prettier-ignore */}
    <TabItem value="pnpm" label="pnpm" default>
        ```bash
        pnpm install itdoc --save-dev
        ```
    </TabItem>
    {/* prettier-ignore */}
    <TabItem value="yarn" label="yarn">
        ```bash
        yarn add -D itdoc
        ```
    </TabItem>
    {/* prettier-ignore */}
    <TabItem value="npm" label="npm">
        ```bash
        npm install itdoc --save-dev
        ```
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Basic Usage

Let's create a simple API documentation for an Express application.

### 1. Create an Express Application

Create a simple Express application (or use your existing one):

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript" default>
        ```js
        const express = require("express")
        const app = express()

        app.use(express.json())

        app.post("/signup", (req, res) => {
            const { username, password } = req.body

            if (!username) {
                return res.status(400).json({ error: "username is required" })
            }

            if (password && password.length < 8) {
                return res.status(400).json({ error: "password must be at least 8 characters" })
            }

            return res.status(201).json({ message: "User created successfully" })
        })

        module.exports = app
        ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">
        ```ts
        import express, { Request, Response } from "express"

        const app = express()
        app.use(express.json())

        app.post("/signup", (req: Request, res: Response) => {
            const { username, password } = req.body

            if (!username) {
                return res.status(400).json({ error: "username is required" })
            }

            if (password && password.length < 8) {
                return res.status(400).json({ error: "password must be at least 8 characters" })
            }

            return res.status(201).json({ message: "User created successfully" })
        })

        export default app
        ```
    </TabItem>

</Tabs>

### 2. Create a Test File

Create a test file that uses itdoc to document your API:

<Tabs>
    <TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript" default>
        ```js
        const app = require("./expressApp")
        const { describeAPI, itDoc, HttpStatus, field, HttpMethod } = require("itdoc")

        describeAPI(
            HttpMethod.POST,
            "/signup",
            {
                summary: "User Registration API",
                tag: "Auth",
                description: "Registers a new user with username and password.",
            },
            app,
            (apiDoc) => {
                itDoc("Successful registration", () => {
                    return apiDoc
                        .test()
                        .req()
                        .body({
                            username: field("Username", "testuser"),
                            password: field("Password", "Password123!"),
                        })
                        .res()
                        .status(HttpStatus.CREATED)
                        .body({
                            message: field("Success message", "User created successfully"),
                        })
                })

                itDoc("Missing username returns error", () => {
                    return apiDoc
                        .test()
                        .req()
                        .body({
                            password: field("Password", "Password123!"),
                        })
                        .res()
                        .status(HttpStatus.BAD_REQUEST)
                        .body({
                            error: field("Error message", "username is required"),
                        })
                })
            },
        )
        ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">
        ```ts
        import app from "./expressApp"
        import { describeAPI, itDoc, HttpStatus, field, HttpMethod } from "itdoc"

        describeAPI(
            HttpMethod.POST,
            "/signup",
            {
                summary: "User Registration API",
                tag: "Auth",
                description: "Registers a new user with username and password.",
            },
            app,
            (apiDoc) => {
                itDoc("Successful registration", () => {
                    return apiDoc
                        .test()
                        .req()
                        .body({
                            username: field("Username", "testuser"),
                            password: field("Password", "Password123!"),
                        })
                        .res()
                        .status(HttpStatus.CREATED)
                        .body({
                            message: field("Success message", "User created successfully"),
                        })
                })

                itDoc("Missing username returns error", () => {
                    return apiDoc
                        .test()
                        .req()
                        .body({
                            password: field("Password", "Password123!"),
                        })
                        .res()
                        .status(HttpStatus.BAD_REQUEST)
                        .body({
                            error: field("Error message", "username is required"),
                        })
                })
            },
        )
        ```
    </TabItem>

</Tabs>

### 3. Run Tests

Configure your test runner. Then run:

<Tabs>
    {/* prettier-ignore */}
    <TabItem value="pnpm" label="pnpm" default>
        ```bash
        pnpm test
        ```
    </TabItem>
    {/* prettier-ignore */}
    <TabItem value="yarn" label="yarn">
        ```bash
        yarn test
        ```
    </TabItem>
    {/* prettier-ignore */}
    <TabItem value="npm" label="npm">
        ```bash
        npm test
        ```
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

If the documentation is not generated correctly, check the [Integration with Test Runner](integration-test-runner) guide.

### 4. Generate Reliable Documentation
When you run your tests, itdoc automatically generates an OpenAPI document in your project’s output/ directory.
The following files will be created:

 - `output/oas.json`: OpenAPI Specification (JSON)
 - `output/api.md`: Markdown version of the API docs
 - `output/redoc.html`: HTML documentation in `redocly` style

These files are generated based on the API documentation defined in your test code, ensuring they are always accurate and reliable.
 
### 5. Additional Configuration (package.json)

You can configure additional settings, such as the output directory and document metadata, by adding
an `itdoc` field to your `package.json` file.

```json title="package.json"
{
    // ... other package.json configurations
    "itdoc": {
        "output": "output", // Directory where the OpenAPI document will be generated (default: output)
        "document": {
            "title": "My API Documentation", // Document title
            "description": "Detailed description of my API." // Document description
        }
    }
}
```

For more detailed configuration options, refer to the [Configuration Guide](./configuration).

## What's Next?
