itdoc-doc/docs/guides/test-framework-migration.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

# Test Framework Migration Guide

> **This guide explains how to migrate existing Mocha or Jest test cases to ITDoc format.**

## Why Migrate to ITDoc?

ITDoc combines API testing with automatic documentation generation. By migrating your existing test cases:

- **Automated OpenAPI Generation**: Your tests automatically generate OpenAPI specs, markdown docs, and HTML documentation
- **Self-Documenting Tests**: API specifications live alongside test logic, ensuring they stay in sync
- **Framework Compatibility**: Continue using your preferred test runner (Mocha or Jest)
- **Better API Visibility**: Structured API documentation with tags, descriptions, and examples

## Key Differences

### Traditional Test Frameworks vs ITDoc

| Feature | Mocha/Jest | ITDoc |
|---------|------------|-------|
| Test grouping | `describe('API', ...)` | `describeAPI(HttpMethod.GET, '/path', {...}, app, ...)` |
| Test case | `it('test name', ...)` | `itDoc('test name', ...)` |
| API metadata | Comments or external docs | Structured `summary`, `description`, `tags` |
| Request/Response specs | Manual assertions | Builder pattern with `field()` helpers |
| Documentation | Manual or separate tools | Auto-generated OpenAPI, Markdown, HTML |

## Migration Process

### Step 1: Understand the Structure

ITDoc uses two main functions that replace the standard test framework functions:

1. **`describeAPI()`**: Replaces `describe()` for API endpoint testing
2. **`itDoc()`**: Replaces `it()` for individual test cases

### Step 2: Identify API Tests to Migrate

Not all tests need migration. ITDoc is designed for **API endpoint testing**. Consider migrating:

- ✅ Integration tests for REST APIs
- ✅ E2E tests for HTTP endpoints
- ✅ API contract tests

Don't migrate:

- ❌ Pure unit tests (functions, utilities, services)
- ❌ Tests without HTTP requests
- ❌ Internal logic tests

### Step 3: Convert Test Structure

## Mocha to ITDoc Conversion

### Before: Standard Mocha Test

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript" default>
    ```js
    const request = require('supertest');
    const app = require('./app');
    const { expect } = require('chai');

    describe('User API', () => {
      describe('POST /users', () => {
        it('should create a new user', async () => {
          const response = await request(app)
            .post('/users')
            .send({
              username: 'johndoe',
              email: 'john@example.com'
            });

          expect(response.status).to.equal(201);
          expect(response.body).to.have.property('id');
          expect(response.body).to.have.property('username', 'johndoe');
        });

        it('should return 400 when username is missing', async () => {
          const response = await request(app)
            .post('/users')
            .send({
              email: 'john@example.com'
            });

          expect(response.status).to.equal(400);
          expect(response.body.error).to.equal('Username is required');
        });
      });
    });
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">
    ```ts
    import request from 'supertest';
    import app from './app';
    import { expect } from 'chai';

    describe('User API', () => {
      describe('POST /users', () => {
        it('should create a new user', async () => {
          const response = await request(app)
            .post('/users')
            .send({
              username: 'johndoe',
              email: 'john@example.com'
            });

          expect(response.status).to.equal(201);
          expect(response.body).to.have.property('id');
          expect(response.body).to.have.property('username', 'johndoe');
        });

        it('should return 400 when username is missing', async () => {
          const response = await request(app)
            .post('/users')
            .send({
              email: 'john@example.com'
            });

          expect(response.status).to.equal(400);
          expect(response.body.error).to.equal('Username is required');
        });
      });
    });
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### After: ITDoc Format

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript" default>
    ```js
    const app = require('./app');
    const { describeAPI, itDoc, HttpMethod, HttpStatus, field } = require('itdoc');

    describeAPI(
      HttpMethod.POST,
      '/users',
      {
        summary: 'User Creation API',
        description: 'Creates a new user with username and email',
        tag: 'Users'
      },
      app,
      (apiDoc) => {
        itDoc('should create a new user', () => {
          return apiDoc
            .test()
            .req()
            .body({
              username: field('Username for the new user', 'johndoe'),
              email: field('User email address', 'john@example.com')
            })
            .res()
            .status(HttpStatus.CREATED)
            .body({
              id: field('Unique user identifier', 1),
              username: field('Username', 'johndoe'),
              email: field('Email address', 'john@example.com')
            });
        });

        itDoc('should return 400 when username is missing', () => {
          return apiDoc
            .test()
            .req()
            .body({
              email: field('User email address', 'john@example.com')
            })
            .res()
            .status(HttpStatus.BAD_REQUEST)
            .body({
              error: field('Error message', 'Username is required')
            });
        });
      }
    );
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">
    ```ts
    import app from './app';
    import { describeAPI, itDoc, HttpMethod, HttpStatus, field } from 'itdoc';

    describeAPI(
      HttpMethod.POST,
      '/users',
      {
        summary: 'User Creation API',
        description: 'Creates a new user with username and email',
        tag: 'Users'
      },
      app,
      (apiDoc) => {
        itDoc('should create a new user', () => {
          return apiDoc
            .test()
            .req()
            .body({
              username: field('Username for the new user', 'johndoe'),
              email: field('User email address', 'john@example.com')
            })
            .res()
            .status(HttpStatus.CREATED)
            .body({
              id: field('Unique user identifier', 1),
              username: field('Username', 'johndoe'),
              email: field('Email address', 'john@example.com')
            });
        });

        itDoc('should return 400 when username is missing', () => {
          return apiDoc
            .test()
            .req()
            .body({
              email: field('User email address', 'john@example.com')
            })
            .res()
            .status(HttpStatus.BAD_REQUEST)
            .body({
              error: field('Error message', 'Username is required')
            });
        });
      }
    );
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Jest to ITDoc Conversion

### Before: Standard Jest Test

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript" default>
    ```js
    const request = require('supertest');
    const app = require('./app');

    describe('Product API', () => {
      describe('GET /products/:id', () => {
        it('should return product details', async () => {
          const response = await request(app)
            .get('/products/123')
            .set('Authorization', 'Bearer token123');

          expect(response.status).toBe(200);
          expect(response.body.id).toBe(123);
          expect(response.body.name).toBe('Test Product');
          expect(response.body.price).toBe(99.99);
        });

        it('should return 404 for non-existent product', async () => {
          const response = await request(app)
            .get('/products/999')
            .set('Authorization', 'Bearer token123');

          expect(response.status).toBe(404);
          expect(response.body.error).toBe('Product not found');
        });
      });
    });
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">
    ```ts
    import request from 'supertest';
    import app from './app';

    describe('Product API', () => {
      describe('GET /products/:id', () => {
        it('should return product details', async () => {
          const response = await request(app)
            .get('/products/123')
            .set('Authorization', 'Bearer token123');

          expect(response.status).toBe(200);
          expect(response.body.id).toBe(123);
          expect(response.body.name).toBe('Test Product');
          expect(response.body.price).toBe(99.99);
        });

        it('should return 404 for non-existent product', async () => {
          const response = await request(app)
            .get('/products/999')
            .set('Authorization', 'Bearer token123');

          expect(response.status).toBe(404);
          expect(response.body.error).toBe('Product not found');
        });
      });
    });
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### After: ITDoc Format

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript" default>
    ```js
    const app = require('./app');
    const { describeAPI, itDoc, HttpMethod, HttpStatus, field, header } = require('itdoc');

    describeAPI(
      HttpMethod.GET,
      '/products/:id',
      {
        summary: 'Get Product Details',
        description: 'Retrieves detailed information about a specific product by ID',
        tag: 'Products'
      },
      app,
      (apiDoc) => {
        itDoc('should return product details', () => {
          return apiDoc
            .test()
            .req()
            .headers({
              Authorization: header('Bearer authentication token', 'Bearer token123')
            })
            .params({
              id: field('Product ID', '123')
            })
            .res()
            .status(HttpStatus.OK)
            .body({
              id: field('Product ID', 123),
              name: field('Product name', 'Test Product'),
              price: field('Product price', 99.99)
            });
        });

        itDoc('should return 404 for non-existent product', () => {
          return apiDoc
            .test()
            .req()
            .headers({
              Authorization: header('Bearer authentication token', 'Bearer token123')
            })
            .params({
              id: field('Product ID', '999')
            })
            .res()
            .status(HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND)
            .body({
              error: field('Error message', 'Product not found')
            });
        });
      }
    );
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">
    ```ts
    import app from './app';
    import { describeAPI, itDoc, HttpMethod, HttpStatus, field, header } from 'itdoc';

    describeAPI(
      HttpMethod.GET,
      '/products/:id',
      {
        summary: 'Get Product Details',
        description: 'Retrieves detailed information about a specific product by ID',
        tag: 'Products'
      },
      app,
      (apiDoc) => {
        itDoc('should return product details', () => {
          return apiDoc
            .test()
            .req()
            .headers({
              Authorization: header('Bearer authentication token', 'Bearer token123')
            })
            .params({
              id: field('Product ID', '123')
            })
            .res()
            .status(HttpStatus.OK)
            .body({
              id: field('Product ID', 123),
              name: field('Product name', 'Test Product'),
              price: field('Product price', 99.99)
            });
        });

        itDoc('should return 404 for non-existent product', () => {
          return apiDoc
            .test()
            .req()
            .headers({
              Authorization: header('Bearer authentication token', 'Bearer token123')
            })
            .params({
              id: field('Product ID', '999')
            })
            .res()
            .status(HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND)
            .body({
              error: field('Error message', 'Product not found')
            });
        });
      }
    );
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Migration Checklist

### 1. Replace Test Functions

- [ ] Replace `describe()` with `describeAPI(method, url, options, app, callback)`
- [ ] Replace `it()` with `itDoc(description, testFn)`
- [ ] Remove manual `supertest` imports (ITDoc handles this internally)

### 2. Add API Metadata

- [ ] Add `summary` (required): Brief API name
- [ ] Add `description` (optional): Detailed API explanation
- [ ] Add `tag` (optional): Category for grouping APIs

### 3. Convert Request Specifications

- [ ] Replace `.send()` with `.req().body({})`
- [ ] Replace `.set()` with `.req().headers({})`
- [ ] Replace `.query()` with `.req().query({})`
- [ ] Add URL parameters with `.req().params({})`

### 4. Convert Response Assertions

- [ ] Replace `expect(response.status)` with `.res().status(HttpStatus.XXX)`
- [ ] Replace body assertions with `.res().body({})`
- [ ] Replace header assertions with `.res().headers({})`

### 5. Use Field Helpers

- [ ] Wrap all request/response fields with `field(description, example)`
- [ ] Wrap headers with `header(description, example)`
- [ ] Set `required` flag: `field(description, example, false)` for optional fields

## Common Patterns

### Optional Fields

```js
// Third parameter controls if field is required (default: true)
field('Optional description', 'example', false)  // Optional field
field('Required description', 'example')         // Required field (default)
field('Required description', 'example', true)   // Explicitly required
```

### Nullable Fields

```js
// ITDoc supports null values as examples
field('Nullable field', null)         // Required nullable field
field('Optional nullable', null, false) // Optional nullable field
```

### Query Parameters

```js
itDoc('should filter by status', () => {
  return apiDoc
    .test()
    .req()
    .query({
      status: field('Filter by status', 'active'),
      page: field('Page number', 1, false)  // Optional parameter
    })
    .res()
    .status(HttpStatus.OK)
    .body({
      items: field('List of filtered items', [])
    });
});
```

### Path Parameters

```js
describeAPI(
  HttpMethod.GET,
  '/users/:userId/posts/:postId',
  { summary: 'Get User Post' },
  app,
  (apiDoc) => {
    itDoc('should return specific post', () => {
      return apiDoc
        .test()
        .req()
        .params({
          userId: field('User ID', '123'),
          postId: field('Post ID', '456')
        })
        .res()
        .status(HttpStatus.OK)
        .body({
          post: field('Post content', 'Hello World')
        });
    });
  }
);
```

### Authentication Headers

```js
import { header } from 'itdoc';

itDoc('should require authentication', () => {
  return apiDoc
    .test()
    .req()
    .headers({
      Authorization: header('Bearer token', 'Bearer eyJhbGc...'),
      'X-API-Key': header('API Key', 'api-key-12345', false)  // Optional header
    })
    .res()
    .status(HttpStatus.OK);
});
```

## Troubleshooting

### Issue: Tests pass but documentation is not generated

**Solution**: Ensure you have configured the test runner integration. See [Integration with Test Runner](integration-test-runner) guide.

### Issue: `Cannot find module 'itdoc'`

**Solution**: Install ITDoc in your project:
```bash
npm install itdoc --save-dev
```

### Issue: TypeScript type errors with `app` parameter

**Solution**: Cast your Express app to `any` or use type assertion:
```ts
import { Application } from 'express';

describeAPI(
  HttpMethod.GET,
  '/api',
  { summary: 'API' },
  app as Application,  // Type assertion
  (apiDoc) => { /* ... */ }
);
```

### Issue: Global `describe` or `it` is undefined

**Solution**: Make sure your test framework (Mocha or Jest) is properly configured and the test file is being run through the test runner.

## Next Steps

After migrating your tests:

1. **Run your tests** to verify they still pass
2. **Check the generated documentation** in the `output/` directory
3. **Review the OpenAPI spec** (`output/oas.json`)
4. **View the HTML documentation** (`output/redoc.html`)
5. **Customize the output** using [Configuration Guide](./configuration)

## Additional Resources

- [API Reference](../api-reference/interface) - Complete ITDoc API documentation
- [Quick Start Guide](./quick-start) - Basic ITDoc usage examples
- [Framework Guide](./framework-guide) - Using ITDoc with NestJS, Fastify, etc.
- [Configuration Guide](./configuration) - Advanced configuration options

Commit message:

chore:  correct tags metadata format in migration guide

itdoc-doc/docs/guides/test-framework-migration.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

# Test Framework Migration Guide

> **This guide explains how to migrate existing Mocha or Jest test cases to ITDoc format.**

## Why Migrate to ITDoc?

ITDoc combines API testing with automatic documentation generation. By migrating your existing test cases:

- **Automated OpenAPI Generation**: Your tests automatically generate OpenAPI specs, markdown docs, and HTML documentation
- **Self-Documenting Tests**: API specifications live alongside test logic, ensuring they stay in sync
- **Framework Compatibility**: Continue using your preferred test runner (Mocha or Jest)
- **Better API Visibility**: Structured API documentation with tags, descriptions, and examples

## Key Differences

### Traditional Test Frameworks vs ITDoc

| Feature | Mocha/Jest | ITDoc |
|---------|------------|-------|
| Test grouping | `describe('API', ...)` | `describeAPI(HttpMethod.GET, '/path', {...}, app, ...)` |
| Test case | `it('test name', ...)` | `itDoc('test name', ...)` |
| API metadata | Comments or external docs | Structured `summary`, `description`, `tags` |
| Request/Response specs | Manual assertions | Builder pattern with `field()` helpers |
| Documentation | Manual or separate tools | Auto-generated OpenAPI, Markdown, HTML |

## Migration Process

### Step 1: Understand the Structure

ITDoc uses two main functions that replace the standard test framework functions:

1. **`describeAPI()`**: Replaces `describe()` for API endpoint testing
2. **`itDoc()`**: Replaces `it()` for individual test cases

### Step 2: Identify API Tests to Migrate

Not all tests need migration. ITDoc is designed for **API endpoint testing**. Consider migrating:

- ✅ Integration tests for REST APIs
- ✅ E2E tests for HTTP endpoints
- ✅ API contract tests

Don't migrate:

- ❌ Pure unit tests (functions, utilities, services)
- ❌ Tests without HTTP requests
- ❌ Internal logic tests

### Step 3: Convert Test Structure

## Mocha to ITDoc Conversion

### Before: Standard Mocha Test

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript" default>
    ```js
    const request = require('supertest');
    const app = require('./app');
    const { expect } = require('chai');

    describe('User API', () => {
      describe('POST /users', () => {
        it('should create a new user', async () => {
          const response = await request(app)
            .post('/users')
            .send({
              username: 'johndoe',
              email: 'john@example.com'
            });

          expect(response.status).to.equal(201);
          expect(response.body).to.have.property('id');
          expect(response.body).to.have.property('username', 'johndoe');
        });

        it('should return 400 when username is missing', async () => {
          const response = await request(app)
            .post('/users')
            .send({
              email: 'john@example.com'
            });

          expect(response.status).to.equal(400);
          expect(response.body.error).to.equal('Username is required');
        });
      });
    });
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">
    ```ts
    import request from 'supertest';
    import app from './app';
    import { expect } from 'chai';

    describe('User API', () => {
      describe('POST /users', () => {
        it('should create a new user', async () => {
          const response = await request(app)
            .post('/users')
            .send({
              username: 'johndoe',
              email: 'john@example.com'
            });

          expect(response.status).to.equal(201);
          expect(response.body).to.have.property('id');
          expect(response.body).to.have.property('username', 'johndoe');
        });

        it('should return 400 when username is missing', async () => {
          const response = await request(app)
            .post('/users')
            .send({
              email: 'john@example.com'
            });

          expect(response.status).to.equal(400);
          expect(response.body.error).to.equal('Username is required');
        });
      });
    });
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### After: ITDoc Format

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript" default>
    ```js
    const app = require('./app');
    const { describeAPI, itDoc, HttpMethod, HttpStatus, field } = require('itdoc');

    describeAPI(
      HttpMethod.POST,
      '/users',
      {
        summary: 'User Creation API',
        description: 'Creates a new user with username and email',
        tags: ['Users']
      },
      app,
      (apiDoc) => {
        itDoc('should create a new user', () => {
          return apiDoc
            .test()
            .req()
            .body({
              username: field('Username for the new user', 'johndoe'),
              email: field('User email address', 'john@example.com')
            })
            .res()
            .status(HttpStatus.CREATED)
            .body({
              id: field('Unique user identifier', 1),
              username: field('Username', 'johndoe'),
              email: field('Email address', 'john@example.com')
            });
        });

        itDoc('should return 400 when username is missing', () => {
          return apiDoc
            .test()
            .req()
            .body({
              email: field('User email address', 'john@example.com')
            })
            .res()
            .status(HttpStatus.BAD_REQUEST)
            .body({
              error: field('Error message', 'Username is required')
            });
        });
      }
    );
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">
    ```ts
    import app from './app';
    import { describeAPI, itDoc, HttpMethod, HttpStatus, field } from 'itdoc';

    describeAPI(
      HttpMethod.POST,
      '/users',
      {
        summary: 'User Creation API',
        description: 'Creates a new user with username and email',
        tags: ['Users']
      },
      app,
      (apiDoc) => {
        itDoc('should create a new user', () => {
          return apiDoc
            .test()
            .req()
            .body({
              username: field('Username for the new user', 'johndoe'),
              email: field('User email address', 'john@example.com')
            })
            .res()
            .status(HttpStatus.CREATED)
            .body({
              id: field('Unique user identifier', 1),
              username: field('Username', 'johndoe'),
              email: field('Email address', 'john@example.com')
            });
        });

        itDoc('should return 400 when username is missing', () => {
          return apiDoc
            .test()
            .req()
            .body({
              email: field('User email address', 'john@example.com')
            })
            .res()
            .status(HttpStatus.BAD_REQUEST)
            .body({
              error: field('Error message', 'Username is required')
            });
        });
      }
    );
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Jest to ITDoc Conversion

### Before: Standard Jest Test

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript" default>
    ```js
    const request = require('supertest');
    const app = require('./app');

    describe('Product API', () => {
      describe('GET /products/:id', () => {
        it('should return product details', async () => {
          const response = await request(app)
            .get('/products/123')
            .set('Authorization', 'Bearer token123');

          expect(response.status).toBe(200);
          expect(response.body.id).toBe(123);
          expect(response.body.name).toBe('Test Product');
          expect(response.body.price).toBe(99.99);
        });

        it('should return 404 for non-existent product', async () => {
          const response = await request(app)
            .get('/products/999')
            .set('Authorization', 'Bearer token123');

          expect(response.status).toBe(404);
          expect(response.body.error).toBe('Product not found');
        });
      });
    });
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">
    ```ts
    import request from 'supertest';
    import app from './app';

    describe('Product API', () => {
      describe('GET /products/:id', () => {
        it('should return product details', async () => {
          const response = await request(app)
            .get('/products/123')
            .set('Authorization', 'Bearer token123');

          expect(response.status).toBe(200);
          expect(response.body.id).toBe(123);
          expect(response.body.name).toBe('Test Product');
          expect(response.body.price).toBe(99.99);
        });

        it('should return 404 for non-existent product', async () => {
          const response = await request(app)
            .get('/products/999')
            .set('Authorization', 'Bearer token123');

          expect(response.status).toBe(404);
          expect(response.body.error).toBe('Product not found');
        });
      });
    });
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### After: ITDoc Format

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript" default>
    ```js
    const app = require('./app');
    const { describeAPI, itDoc, HttpMethod, HttpStatus, field, header } = require('itdoc');

    describeAPI(
      HttpMethod.GET,
      '/products/:id',
      {
        summary: 'Get Product Details',
        description: 'Retrieves detailed information about a specific product by ID',
        tags: ['Products']
      },
      app,
      (apiDoc) => {
        itDoc('should return product details', () => {
          return apiDoc
            .test()
            .req()
            .headers({
              Authorization: header('Bearer authentication token', 'Bearer token123')
            })
            .params({
              id: field('Product ID', '123')
            })
            .res()
            .status(HttpStatus.OK)
            .body({
              id: field('Product ID', 123),
              name: field('Product name', 'Test Product'),
              price: field('Product price', 99.99)
            });
        });

        itDoc('should return 404 for non-existent product', () => {
          return apiDoc
            .test()
            .req()
            .headers({
              Authorization: header('Bearer authentication token', 'Bearer token123')
            })
            .params({
              id: field('Product ID', '999')
            })
            .res()
            .status(HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND)
            .body({
              error: field('Error message', 'Product not found')
            });
        });
      }
    );
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">
    ```ts
    import app from './app';
    import { describeAPI, itDoc, HttpMethod, HttpStatus, field, header } from 'itdoc';

    describeAPI(
      HttpMethod.GET,
      '/products/:id',
      {
        summary: 'Get Product Details',
        description: 'Retrieves detailed information about a specific product by ID',
        tags: ['Products']
      },
      app,
      (apiDoc) => {
        itDoc('should return product details', () => {
          return apiDoc
            .test()
            .req()
            .headers({
              Authorization: header('Bearer authentication token', 'Bearer token123')
            })
            .params({
              id: field('Product ID', '123')
            })
            .res()
            .status(HttpStatus.OK)
            .body({
              id: field('Product ID', 123),
              name: field('Product name', 'Test Product'),
              price: field('Product price', 99.99)
            });
        });

        itDoc('should return 404 for non-existent product', () => {
          return apiDoc
            .test()
            .req()
            .headers({
              Authorization: header('Bearer authentication token', 'Bearer token123')
            })
            .params({
              id: field('Product ID', '999')
            })
            .res()
            .status(HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND)
            .body({
              error: field('Error message', 'Product not found')
            });
        });
      }
    );
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Migration Checklist

### 1. Replace Test Functions

- [ ] Replace `describe()` with `describeAPI(method, url, options, app, callback)`
- [ ] Replace `it()` with `itDoc(description, testFn)`
- [ ] Remove manual `supertest` imports (ITDoc handles this internally)

### 2. Add API Metadata

- [ ] Add `summary` (required): Brief API name
- [ ] Add `description` (optional): Detailed API explanation
- [ ] Add `tags` (optional): Array of categories for grouping APIs

### 3. Convert Request Specifications

- [ ] Replace `.send()` with `.req().body({})`
- [ ] Replace `.set()` with `.req().headers({})`
- [ ] Replace `.query()` with `.req().query({})`
- [ ] Add URL parameters with `.req().params({})`

### 4. Convert Response Assertions

- [ ] Replace `expect(response.status)` with `.res().status(HttpStatus.XXX)`
- [ ] Replace body assertions with `.res().body({})`
- [ ] Replace header assertions with `.res().headers({})`

### 5. Use Field Helpers

- [ ] Wrap all request/response fields with `field(description, example)`
- [ ] Wrap headers with `header(description, example)`
- [ ] Set `required` flag: `field(description, example, false)` for optional fields

## Common Patterns

### Optional Fields

```js
// Third parameter controls if field is required (default: true)
field('Optional description', 'example', false)  // Optional field
field('Required description', 'example')         // Required field (default)
field('Required description', 'example', true)   // Explicitly required
```

### Nullable Fields

```js
// ITDoc supports null values as examples
field('Nullable field', null)         // Required nullable field
field('Optional nullable', null, false) // Optional nullable field
```

### Query Parameters

```js
itDoc('should filter by status', () => {
  return apiDoc
    .test()
    .req()
    .query({
      status: field('Filter by status', 'active'),
      page: field('Page number', 1, false)  // Optional parameter
    })
    .res()
    .status(HttpStatus.OK)
    .body({
      items: field('List of filtered items', [])
    });
});
```

### Path Parameters

```js
describeAPI(
  HttpMethod.GET,
  '/users/:userId/posts/:postId',
  { summary: 'Get User Post' },
  app,
  (apiDoc) => {
    itDoc('should return specific post', () => {
      return apiDoc
        .test()
        .req()
        .params({
          userId: field('User ID', '123'),
          postId: field('Post ID', '456')
        })
        .res()
        .status(HttpStatus.OK)
        .body({
          post: field('Post content', 'Hello World')
        });
    });
  }
);
```

### Authentication Headers

```js
import { header } from 'itdoc';

itDoc('should require authentication', () => {
  return apiDoc
    .test()
    .req()
    .headers({
      Authorization: header('Bearer token', 'Bearer eyJhbGc...'),
      'X-API-Key': header('API Key', 'api-key-12345', false)  // Optional header
    })
    .res()
    .status(HttpStatus.OK);
});
```

## Troubleshooting

### Issue: Tests pass but documentation is not generated

**Solution**: Ensure you have configured the test runner integration. See [Integration with Test Runner](integration-test-runner) guide.

### Issue: `Cannot find module 'itdoc'`

**Solution**: Install ITDoc in your project:
```bash
npm install itdoc --save-dev
```

### Issue: TypeScript type errors with `app` parameter

**Solution**: Cast your Express app to `any` or use type assertion:
```ts
import { Application } from 'express';

describeAPI(
  HttpMethod.GET,
  '/api',
  { summary: 'API' },
  app as Application,  // Type assertion
  (apiDoc) => { /* ... */ }
);
```

### Issue: Global `describe` or `it` is undefined

**Solution**: Make sure your test framework (Mocha or Jest) is properly configured and the test file is being run through the test runner.

## Next Steps

After migrating your tests:

1. **Run your tests** to verify they still pass
2. **Check the generated documentation** in the `output/` directory
3. **Review the OpenAPI spec** (`output/oas.json`)
4. **View the HTML documentation** (`output/redoc.html`)
5. **Customize the output** using [Configuration Guide](./configuration)

## Additional Resources

- [API Reference](../api-reference/interface) - Complete ITDoc API documentation
- [Quick Start Guide](./quick-start) - Basic ITDoc usage examples
- [Framework Guide](./framework-guide) - Using ITDoc with NestJS, Fastify, etc.
- [Configuration Guide](./configuration) - Advanced configuration options
